---
layout: post
title:  "Pelmeni"
date:   2016-08-22
categories: dumplings
link: "http://geocenter.github.io/StataTraining/pdf/StataCheatSheet_programming_2016_June.pdf"
source: Liza
---

### Pelmeni dough
* 3 c flour
* 1 c cold water
* 1 egg
* 1 scant teaspoon salt

(from [Please to the Table: The Russian Cookbook by Anya von Bremzen, John Welchman](https://www.amazon.com/Please-Table-Anya-von-Bremzen/), cross-referencing with [Mamushka: Recipes from Ukraine and Eastern Europe by Olia Hercules](https://www.amazon.com/Mamushka-Recipes-Ukraine-Eastern-Europe))

1. Combine the flour and salt.
2. Mix in the egg, and slowly add in the water (using either well method or food processor)
3. Transfer the dough to a floured surface and knead until smooth (~ 2 min.)
4. Cover with plastic wrap and let the gluten relax in the refrigerator 30 min. Dough should be firm and very elastic so it can be rolled thin.
2. Roll out the dough to ~ 1/16" thick (~ 1.5 mm) (setting 2 or 3 on pasta maker)
Stuff the dough with fillings (see below), using egg white if necessary to help seal.  If using a ravioli/pelmeni press, make sure the dough is well floured before putting into the mold (or else they stick). Don't over-stuff the dumplings or they risk bursting. After they're formed, sprinkle with a bit of flour to keep them from sticking.
Freeze or use immediately.
To use immediately, boil in salted water until the dumplings float and are cooked through (~ 8 min.)
Serve warm with sour cream or butter.

### Meat filling
* 1/2 ground beef
* 1/2 ground pork
* diced onion
* garlic (optional)
* salt (~ 1 - 1.5 t. per pound of meat)
* pepper
* parsley or cilantro

1. Dice onions and remove any excess liquid.
2. Combine all the ingredients together till well-mixed.

### Potato filling
* potatoes (possibly try not red potatoes-- something with more substance so it doesn't just absorb into dough)
* butter
* milk or cream
* salt
* pepper

1. Boil potatoes in salted water until soft. Drain.
2. Mash potatoes with butter and milk or cream. Only add enough milk to loosely bind the potatoes, or else they will absorb into the dumpling wrapper.
3. Add salt and pepper to taste.
4. *Optional: add in roasted garlic or caramelized onions*

### Potato-mushroom filling
* potatoes
* mushrooms (some mixture of cremini, brown, and button)
* butter
* cream or milk
* salt
* pepper

1. Make potato filling (a.k.a. mashed potatoes)
2. Sauté mushrooms in butter a few at time until soft and golden brown.
3. Combine potatoes and mushrooms and season to taste.

### Cabbage-carrot filling
from http://carrotsncake.com/2009/03/guest-post-cabbage-vareniki.html

* ½ a medium cabbage
* 1 medium carrot, diced into small pieces
* 1 medium onion, diced into small pieces
* ½ cup of pickled cabbage or 1 teaspoon lemon juice (note: suggest omitting)
* water, as needed
* salt
* 2 tablespoons butter
* 1 tablespoon olive oil

1.	Take the cabbage and split it into smaller sections, as shown.
2.	Chop the cabbage into small pieces. Set aside.
3.	In a large pan, melt the butter over medium heat. Place the diced onion and diced carrot into the pan for a few minutes, until the onion is medium brown. Increase heat to high and put in the chopped cabbage. Stir occasionally. Add either the ½ cup of pickled cabbage or the lemon juice. The mixture is ready when the cabbage has browned as well.
